README.md, before:

# ip2ldb-reader

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ip2ldb-reader)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ip2ldb-reader)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/ip2ldb-reader)](./LICENSE)

A database reader for IP2Location [paid](https://www.ip2location.com/database), [free](https://lite.ip2location.com/database), and [sample](https://www.ip2location.com/development-libraries) databases. This is derivative work, based on [github.com/ip2location-nodejs/IP2Location](https://github.com/ip2location-nodejs/IP2Location).

## Installation

This module has been tested with Node.js 10, 12, 14, and 16. Feel free to try other versions, but additional support is not promised.

Local installation

```
npm install ip2ldb-reader
```

## Usage

```JavaScript
import Ip2lReader from 'ip2ldb-reader';
// Or using require() syntax:
// const Ip2lReader = require('ip2ldb-reader').Ip2lReader;

// Define database reader options
const options = {...};

// Construct an instance of Ip2lReader
const ip2lReader = new Ip2lReader();

// Initialize reader with the IP2Location database
await ip2lReader.init('/path/to/database.bin', options);

// Get geolocation data for IP addresses
const ipv6data = ip2lReader.get('2001:4860:4860::8888');
const ipv4data = ip2lReader.get('8.8.8.8');

// Close the database and uninitialize the reader
ip2lReader.close();
```

## Options

```JavaScript
{
  // {boolean} Cache database in memory
  cacheDatabaseInMemory: false,

  // {boolean} Watch filesystem for database updates and reload if detected
  reloadOnDbUpdate: false,

  // {string} Path to subdivision CSV database
  subdivisionCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to GeoName ID CSV database
  geoNameIdCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to country info CSV database
  countryInfoCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to IATA/ICAO airport CSV database
  iataIcaoCsvPath: undefined,
}
```

**Additional information**

- `cacheDatabaseInMemory` - Read entire database into memory on intialization.
- `reloadOnDbUpdate` - When enabled, the database file is monitored for changes with a 500ms debounce.
  - If `cacheDatabaseInMemory` is `false` (the default case), the database reader is put into the `INITIALIZING` state on the leading edge of the debounce. Attempts to read from the database short circuit and do not touch the filesystem. The updated database is reloaded on the trailing edge of the debounce. This means there is a minimum of 500ms where geolocation requests will receive `{status: "INITIALIZING"}` responses.
  - If `cacheDatabaseInMemory` is `true`, the reader will continue to return results from the cached database while the updated database loads. There is no interruption in service.
- `subdivisionCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location ISO 3166-2 Subdivision Code CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/iso3166-2) is provided, the country code and region will be used to identify the corresponding subdivision code.
- `geoNameIdCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location GeoName ID CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/geoname-id) is provided, the country code, region, and city will be used to identify the corresponding GeoName ID.
- `countryInfoCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location Country Information CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/country-information) is provided, the country code will be used to identify additional country information (capital, population, currency, language, etc.).
- `iataIcaoCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location IATA/ICAO airport CSV database](https://github.com/ip2location/ip2location-iata-icao) is provided, the country code and region will be used to identify airports in the region.

## Return

The object returned by `Ip2lReader.get(ip)` has the following structure:

```JavaScript
{
  ip: string | null;
  ip_no: string | null;
  status: string | null;

  addresstype?: string;
  airports?: IataIcaoData[] | null;
  areacode?: string;
  category?: string;
  city?: string;
  country_info?: CountryInfoData | null;
  country_long?: string;
  country_short?: string;
  domain?: string;
  elevation?: string;
  geoname_id?: number | null;
  iddcode?: string;
  isp?: string;
  latitude?: number | null;
  longitude?: number | null;
  mcc?: string;
  mnc?: string;
  mobilebrand?: string;
  netspeed?: string;
  region?: string;
  subdivision?: string;
  timezone?: string;
  usagetype?: string;
  weatherstationcode?: string;
  weatherstationname?: string;
  zipcode?: string;
}
```

where

```JavaScript
CountryInfoData: {
    capital: string;
    cctld?: string;
    country_alpha3_code?: string;
    country_code: string;
    country_demonym?: string;
    country_name?: string;
    country_numeric_code?: number | null;
    currency_code?: string;
    currency_name?: string;
    currency_symbol?: string;
    idd_code?: number | null;
    lang_code?: string;
    lang_name?: string;
    population?: number | null;
    total_area: number | null;
  },
```

and

```JavaScript
IataIcaoData: {
    airport: string;
    iata: string;
    icao: string;
    latitude: number | null;
    longitude: number | null;
  },
```

Properties suffixed by `?` only exist if the database supports them. For example, when using a DB1 (country only) database, a sample return object looks like

```
{
  ip: "8.8.8.8",
  ip_no: "134744072",
  status: "OK",
  country_short: "US",
  country_long: "United States of America"
}
```

Possible values for `status` include:

- `OK` - Successful search for geolocation data
- `INITIALIZING` - Database reader is initializing and is not ready to receive requests
- `NOT_INITIALIZED` - Database reader failed to initialize
- `IP_ADDRESS_NOT_FOUND` - IP address has correct format, but database does not contain data for it
- `INVALID_IP_ADDRESS` - IP address does not have correct format
- `IPV6_NOT_SUPPORTED` - Unable to lookup IPv6 address because database does not support them
- `DATABASE_NOT_FOUND` - Database is missing from the filesystem

When no geolocation data is available for a supported property in the return object:

- String values are empty (`""`)
- Number values are null (`null`)

## Upgrade notes

- Prior to version 2.0, unknown number values were reported as zero (`0`). Beginning with version 2.0, unknown numbers are reported as null (`null`);

## Development

See available build, lint, clean, etc. scripts with `npm run`.

Unit tests require the following database files to be made available in folder `database` within the project directory:

- [IP2LOCATION-ISO3166-2.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/iso3166-2) - ISO 3166-2 Subdivision Code database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-GEONAMEID.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/geoname-id) - GeoName ID database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-COUNTRY-INFORMATION.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/country-information) - Country Info ("More Information" version) database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-IATA-ICAO.CSV](https://github.com/ip2location/ip2location-iata-icao) - IATA/ICAO airport database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-LITE-DB1.BIN](https://lite.ip2location.com/database/db1-ip-country) - LITE IP-COUNTRY DB1 IPv4 database in BIN format
- [IP2LOCATION-SAMPLE-DB25.IPV6.BIN](https://www.ip2location.com/database/db25-ip-country-region-city-latitude-longitude-zipcode-timezone-isp-domain-netspeed-areacode-weather-mobile-elevation-usagetype-addresstype-category) - Sample DB25 IPv6 database in BIN format

Note that the _sample_ DB25 database is expected for unit tests, not the full, paid database.

Commit message:

Update packages and readme
- Update Node.js compatibility list
- Bump version
- Now using npm@9, so lockfile version updated

README.md, after:

# ip2ldb-reader

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/ip2ldb-reader)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ip2ldb-reader)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/ip2ldb-reader)](./LICENSE)

A database reader for IP2Location [paid](https://www.ip2location.com/database), [free](https://lite.ip2location.com/database), and [sample](https://www.ip2location.com/development-libraries) databases. This is derivative work, based on [github.com/ip2location-nodejs/IP2Location](https://github.com/ip2location-nodejs/IP2Location).

## Installation

This module has been tested with Node.js LTS 14, 16, and 18. Feel free test other versions of Node.js and [let me know](https://github.com/mdmower/ip2ldb-reader/issues) if you encounter compatibility issues.

Local installation

```
npm install ip2ldb-reader
```

## Usage

```JavaScript
import Ip2lReader from 'ip2ldb-reader';
// Or using require() syntax:
// const Ip2lReader = require('ip2ldb-reader').Ip2lReader;

// Define database reader options
const options = {...};

// Construct an instance of Ip2lReader
const ip2lReader = new Ip2lReader();

// Initialize reader with the IP2Location database
await ip2lReader.init('/path/to/database.bin', options);

// Get geolocation data for IP addresses
const ipv6data = ip2lReader.get('2001:4860:4860::8888');
const ipv4data = ip2lReader.get('8.8.8.8');

// Close the database and uninitialize the reader
ip2lReader.close();
```

## Options

```JavaScript
{
  // {boolean} Cache database in memory
  cacheDatabaseInMemory: false,

  // {boolean} Watch filesystem for database updates and reload if detected
  reloadOnDbUpdate: false,

  // {string} Path to subdivision CSV database
  subdivisionCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to GeoName ID CSV database
  geoNameIdCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to country info CSV database
  countryInfoCsvPath: undefined,

  // {string} Path to IATA/ICAO airport CSV database
  iataIcaoCsvPath: undefined,
}
```

**Additional information**

- `cacheDatabaseInMemory` - Read entire database into memory on intialization.
- `reloadOnDbUpdate` - When enabled, the database file is monitored for changes with a 500ms debounce.
  - If `cacheDatabaseInMemory` is `false` (the default case), the database reader is put into the `INITIALIZING` state on the leading edge of the debounce. Attempts to read from the database short circuit and do not touch the filesystem. The updated database is reloaded on the trailing edge of the debounce. This means there is a minimum of 500ms where geolocation requests will receive `{status: "INITIALIZING"}` responses.
  - If `cacheDatabaseInMemory` is `true`, the reader will continue to return results from the cached database while the updated database loads. There is no interruption in service.
- `subdivisionCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location ISO 3166-2 Subdivision Code CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/iso3166-2) is provided, the country code and region will be used to identify the corresponding subdivision code.
- `geoNameIdCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location GeoName ID CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/geoname-id) is provided, the country code, region, and city will be used to identify the corresponding GeoName ID.
- `countryInfoCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location Country Information CSV database](https://www.ip2location.com/free/country-information) is provided, the country code will be used to identify additional country information (capital, population, currency, language, etc.).
- `iataIcaoCsvPath` - When a filesystem path to the [IP2Location IATA/ICAO airport CSV database](https://github.com/ip2location/ip2location-iata-icao) is provided, the country code and region will be used to identify airports in the region.

## Return

The object returned by `Ip2lReader.get(ip)` has the following structure:

```JavaScript
{
  ip: string | null;
  ip_no: string | null;
  status: string | null;

  addresstype?: string;
  airports?: IataIcaoData[] | null;
  areacode?: string;
  category?: string;
  city?: string;
  country_info?: CountryInfoData | null;
  country_long?: string;
  country_short?: string;
  domain?: string;
  elevation?: string;
  geoname_id?: number | null;
  iddcode?: string;
  isp?: string;
  latitude?: number | null;
  longitude?: number | null;
  mcc?: string;
  mnc?: string;
  mobilebrand?: string;
  netspeed?: string;
  region?: string;
  subdivision?: string;
  timezone?: string;
  usagetype?: string;
  weatherstationcode?: string;
  weatherstationname?: string;
  zipcode?: string;
}
```

where

```JavaScript
CountryInfoData: {
    capital: string;
    cctld?: string;
    country_alpha3_code?: string;
    country_code: string;
    country_demonym?: string;
    country_name?: string;
    country_numeric_code?: number | null;
    currency_code?: string;
    currency_name?: string;
    currency_symbol?: string;
    idd_code?: number | null;
    lang_code?: string;
    lang_name?: string;
    population?: number | null;
    total_area: number | null;
  },
```

and

```JavaScript
IataIcaoData: {
    airport: string;
    iata: string;
    icao: string;
    latitude: number | null;
    longitude: number | null;
  },
```

Properties suffixed by `?` only exist if the database supports them. For example, when using a DB1 (country only) database, a sample return object looks like

```
{
  ip: "8.8.8.8",
  ip_no: "134744072",
  status: "OK",
  country_short: "US",
  country_long: "United States of America"
}
```

Possible values for `status` include:

- `OK` - Successful search for geolocation data
- `INITIALIZING` - Database reader is initializing and is not ready to receive requests
- `NOT_INITIALIZED` - Database reader failed to initialize
- `IP_ADDRESS_NOT_FOUND` - IP address has correct format, but database does not contain data for it
- `INVALID_IP_ADDRESS` - IP address does not have correct format
- `IPV6_NOT_SUPPORTED` - Unable to lookup IPv6 address because database does not support them
- `DATABASE_NOT_FOUND` - Database is missing from the filesystem

When no geolocation data is available for a supported property in the return object:

- String values are empty (`""`)
- Number values are null (`null`)

## Upgrade notes

- Prior to version 2.0, unknown number values were reported as zero (`0`). Beginning with version 2.0, unknown numbers are reported as null (`null`);

## Development

See available build, lint, clean, etc. scripts with `npm run`.

Unit tests require the following database files to be made available in folder `database` within the project directory:

- [IP2LOCATION-ISO3166-2.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/iso3166-2) - ISO 3166-2 Subdivision Code database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-GEONAMEID.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/geoname-id) - GeoName ID database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-COUNTRY-INFORMATION.CSV](https://www.ip2location.com/free/country-information) - Country Info ("More Information" version) database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-IATA-ICAO.CSV](https://github.com/ip2location/ip2location-iata-icao) - IATA/ICAO airport database in CSV format
- [IP2LOCATION-LITE-DB1.BIN](https://lite.ip2location.com/database/db1-ip-country) - LITE IP-COUNTRY DB1 IPv4 database in BIN format
- [IP2LOCATION-SAMPLE-DB25.IPV6.BIN](https://www.ip2location.com/database/db25-ip-country-region-city-latitude-longitude-zipcode-timezone-isp-domain-netspeed-areacode-weather-mobile-elevation-usagetype-addresstype-category) - Sample DB25 IPv6 database in BIN format

Note that the _sample_ DB25 database is expected for unit tests, not the full, paid database.
